# Percona Packages for Valkey 8.0.0 RC2 release notes

--8<-- "upgrade-urgency.md"


## <a id="800-rc2-valkey-released-tue-2-sep-2024"></a>Valkey 8.0.0 RC2 - Released Tue 2 Sep 2024

Upgrade urgency **LOW**.

This is the second release candidate of Valkey 8.0, which
generally includes stability and performance improvements over the first release
candidate. This release is fully compatible with Redis OSS 7.2.4.

### <a id="800-rc2-new-features"></a>New Features

* Add support for setting the group on a unix domain socket. ([#901])
* Experimental - RDMA: Support user keepalive command. ([#916])

### <a id="800-rc2-logging-and-tooling-improvements"></a>Logging and Tooling Improvements

* Improve logging when a cluster is unable to failover. ([#780])
* Add epoch information to failover auth denied logs. ([#816])
* Improve messaging when valkey-cli cluster --fix meet check failed. ([#867])
* Log unexpected $ENDOFF responses in dual channel replication. ([#839])
* Skip IPv6 tests when it is unsupported on TCLSH. ([#910])
* Add a light weight version of DEBUG OBJECT. ([#881])
* Add lfu support for DEBUG OBJECT command, added lfu_freq and
  lfu_access_time_minutes fields. ([#479])

### <a name="800-rc2-bug-fixes"></a>Bug fixes

* Correctly expose client infomation in the slowlog when running commands in scripts. ([#805])
* Fix a bug where lastbgsave_status was unecessarily being updated when dual
  channel replication failed. ([#811])
* Fix a bug which caused dual channel replication to get stuck because of a TLS
  issue. ([#837])
* Fix a bug which caused bouncing `-REDIRECT` messages during a FAILOVER ([#871])
* Avoid re-establishing replication to a node that is already the primary in `CLUSTER REPLICATE`. ([#884])
* Fix `CLUSTER SETSLOT` with `BLOCK` to only wait for replicas that are online. ([#879])
* Fix `valkey-cli` to make source node ignores NOREPLICAS when doing the last CLUSTER SETSLOT ([#928])
* Exclude '.' and ':' from `isValidAuxChar`'s banned charset to better support
  IPV6 addresses. ([#963])
* Better handle `-REDIRECT` messages in the MULTI context. ([#895])

### <a id="800-rc2-performance"></a>Performance

* Improve multithreaded performance with memory prefetching. ([#861])
* Optimize ZUNION[STORE] command by removing unnecessary accumulator dict. ([#829])
* Optimize linear search of WAIT and WAITAOF when unblocking the client. ([#787])
* Move prepareClientToWrite out of loop for lrange command to remove redundant calls. ([#860])
* Optimize various commands by using sdsAllocSize instead of sdsZmallocSize. ([#923])
* Using intrinsics to optimize counting HyperLogLog trailing bits. ([#846])
* Free client's MULTI state when it becomes dirty to reduce memory usage. ([#961])
* Optimize the fast path of SET if the expiration time has already expired. ([#865])

### <a id="800-rc2-compatibility-improvements"></a>Compatibility Improvements

* Add 4 sentinel command `GET-PRIMARY-ADDR-BY-NAME`, `PRIMARY`, `PRIMARIES`, and
  `IS-PRIMARY-DOWN-BY-ADDR` to allow clients to use inclusive language. ([#789])

### <a id="800-rc2-behavior-changes"></a>Behavior Changes

* Block unsubscribe related commands for clients that are not in subscribed mode. ([#759])

### <a id="800-rc2-configuration-changes"></a>Configuration Changes

* Change repl-backlog-size from 1MB to 10MB by default. ([#911])
* Remove the protected flag from `dual-channel-replication`. ([#908])



--8<-- "pr-links.md"
