# Percona Packages for Valkey 8.0.0 GA release notes 

--8<-- "upgrade-urgency.md"

## <a id="800-ga-valkey-800-ga-released-sun-15-sep-2024"></a>Valkey 8.0.0 GA - Released Sun 15 Sep 2024 

Upgrade urgency **LOW**.

This is the first release of Valkey 8.0, which
includes stability and performance improvements over the second release
candidate. This release is fully compatible with Redis OSS 7.2.4.

### <a id="800-ga-logging-and-tooling-improvements"></a>Logging and Tooling Improvements

* Added full client info to SHUTDOWN and CLUSTER FAILOVER logs for better traceability
  of requests. ([#875])

### <a id="800-ga-bug-fixes"></a>Bug fixes

* Resolved issues in replicationSetPrimary where the primary node's IP/port updates were
  not correctly handled in the cluster gossip section. ([#965])
* Fixed AOF base suffix during rewrites when modifying the aof-use-rdb-preamble setting,
  ensuring correct suffix caching to prevent inconsistencies. ([#886])
* Addressed rare crashes in async IO threads with TLS by preventing concurrent read and
  write job overlap. ([#1011])
* Prevented AOF from being incorrectly disabled after loading RDB data, ensuring proper
  re-enabling of AOF. ([#1001])
* Triggered a save of the cluster configuration file before shutdown to prevent
  inconsistencies caused by unsaved node configuration changes. ([#822])
* Fixed timing issue in CLUSTER SETSLOT to ensure replicas handle migration correctly
  when receiving the command before the gossip update. ([#981])

### <a id="800-ga-performance"></a>Performance

* Optimized the handling of temporary set objects in SUNION and SDIFF commands, resulting
  in a 41% performance improvement for SUNION and 27% for SDIFF. ([#996])

### <a id="800-ga-behavior-changes"></a>Behavior Changes

* Replicas now flush old data after checking RDB file is valid during disk-based replication,
  preventing partial data loss and ensuring a clean data load. ([#926])



--8<-- "pr-links.md"
